name: Character Appearance Story
description: Why did a PC suddenly show up? https://pfaff.blog/new-characters-deep-in-a-megadungeon/
recipe: {lost}, and now I'm {doing} {condition}
repeat: 1

table: lost
1   I fell down a chute
2   I went down the wrong tunnel, scouting ahead
3   I went through a one-way door
4   I was teleported by some demon
5   A spinning wall split me from my previous crew
6   A pit opened up and swallowed me
7   The rest of the party was killed. The map was lost
8   I was hit by a Fear spell and ran away down random paths
9   I camped out in the dungeon. When I woke, everyone was gone. I hadn't been
    paying attention to where we were going
10  I stepped through a door, and the other side was some unknown part of the
    dungeon. My party was smart enough not to follow
11  My old party abandoned me while I was shitting
12  I'm a daring solo explorer who just took a few wrong turns

table: doing
1   surrounded by monsters
2   in a cage made of bones
3   at the bottom of an inescapable pit trap
4   hunting small creatures for food
5   trapped in a spider's web
6   hallucinating on psychadelic mushrooms
7   in the belly of a monster just slain
8   hanging upside down in a snare trap
9   passed out drunk
10  fortifying a hideout
11  fleeing something
12  feeling my way through the dark with no light source

table: condition
1   naked, starving, and dehydrated.
2   naked, gagged, and tied to a pole.
3   naked and afraid, with but a torch burning low.
4   well-equipped but exhausted and running out of luck. Hit points are {1d4}0% of max.
5   with just my weapons and armor, plus a head-pounding hangover.
6   with just whatever I was wearing and what's in my backpack, but otherwise fine.
7   with just arms and armor. I have no food or water, but a full belly after
    resorting to eating a monster and drinking its blood.
8   with useless crap I've been collecting, but running low on food and water.
9   sick with chills and fever, with a full loadout.
10  without my arms and armor and only two pieces of gear (name them).
    I'm down to half my hit points.
11  healthy, but ill-equipped for the current predicament.
12  in good health and with full loadout.
